the Israeli Army says it has expanded
its ground offensive into every part of
the Gaza Strip heavy bombing has been
reported in the southern city of can
Yunis following orders by Israeli forces
for Palestinians to leave the area
Israel says its new ground operation is
needed to destroy Hamas which is
classified by several countries as a
terrorist organization Palestinians in
the sealed off territory say they're
running out of places to
go outside this Hospital in Gaza City
more and more bodies are lined up
there's no room inside it's full with
the
wounded as the focus of Israeli
bombardments turns to the crowded south
of the strip people say they have
nowhere left to go the territory is
sealed
off death is everywhere where should we
[Music]
turn
survivors of strikes report evacuation
orders coming too late before the bombs
hit and say that it's homes businesses
and civilians that are being
[Music]
targeted we came here in the street and
saw Martyrs wounded here and there we
don't know why we don't know for what
reason it's an ordinary Mill why do they
strike an Olive
Mill
but Israel maintains that it does not
Target civilians and claims it's hitting
Hamas locations now expanding its ground
operation into the South as
well the Israeli Defense Forces continue
to extend their ground operation against
Hamas in all of the Gaza Strip in all of
Gaza where there is a Hamas Center the
IDF is
operating fighting face to face with
terrorists and killing them the Israel
goal of eliminating Hamas apparently
stretches far beyond Gaza in audio
obtained by Israel's public broadcaster
the head of the internal security
service Shin Bet vowed to eliminate
Hamas leaders overseas
too the cabinet set a goal for us to
eliminate Hamas and we are determined to
do that in every place in Gaza Judea
Samaria Lebanon in Turkey in Qatar
everywhere it will take several years
but we will be there to do it
as the war heads into its third month
there's little hope that the fighting
will end anytime soon Israel's closest
Ally the US has called for limiting harm
to Palestinian civilians but on the
ground in Gaza there is no sign of
respite from the constant
attacks well for more let's bring in
Shaina low from the Norwegian Refugee
Council she joins us from Jerusalem uh
Shaina what can you tell us about the
current humanitarian situation in
Gaza the humanitarian situation
continues to deteriorate day by day now
already we've seen about 80% of
Palestinians internally displaced within
Gaza um more than 60% of housing damaged
or destroyed now we have a second wave
or an additional wave of uh displacement
causing chaos Panic shelters are already
overcrowded on top of that the ongoing
hostilities are greatly limiting the
ability of humanitarian organizations
like the Norwegian Refugee Council from
reaching those who need assistance most
we desperately need a ceasefire in order
to address the incredible unbelievable
humanitarian needs that have grown over
the last eight
weeks people in Gaza are now being told
to flee from parts of the South but is
there a safe place for civilians in Gaza
at the moment
[Music]
sha there hasn't been a safe place in
Gaza in the last 8 weeks we are
continually perplexed by these
directives for Palestinians to flee
certain areas of the of the Gaza Strip
uh to to so-called safer areas there are
no safe places for people the shelters
are overcrowded people are still being
targeted in areas that are supposedly
safe we ourselves had F had staff who
lost family members when after they had
fled the North to the South who were
then bombed in the South this is a
pattern that we've seen over and over
again where people who have already fled
one place to to where they were told to
go are being killed in the places that
are supposed to be safer the only way to
establish safe places in Gaza is to have
a ceasefire and end the
hostilities now the widening offensive
will certainly complicate Aid deliveries
to Gaza how much Aid is actually getting
through
now well the UN hasn't been able to even
release the numbers of trucks that went
through yesterday there were some trucks
but it's unclear how many went through
the other challenge is that even Aid
that has made it through that has been
pre-positioned it might not be possible
for humanitarian organizations to access
that Aid we ourselves have been cut off
from the middle area which is where uh
three truckloads worth of goods were uh
we're in a warehouse awaiting
distribution each day we are having to
reassess what is and isn't possible and
adjust our plans and pivot it's
incredibly difficult to have a
humanitarian response that that reaches
people in need when they're ongoing
hostilities and also when there's such
limited amounts of Aid getting
in what's it like Shaina for you and
particular particularly your colleagues
on the ground in Gaza trying to provide
help under these
circumstances you know for our
colleagues in Gaza not only are they
trying to provide help but they're also
the ones now needing help and trying to
keep their families safe and and provide
for their families every day is the
worst day of their lives every day that
it gets more and more challenging we I
personally have run out of things to say
to reassure my colleagues in Gaza
because the situation day by day just
looks Bleaker bleer not only for them on
the inside but for them on the outside
each day it's just a struggle to to find
basic needs hours of waiting in line to
get bread uh difficulty finding clean
water um and then and watching people
it's incredibly difficult to be working
for a humanitarian organization seeing
so much suffering and feeling completely
helpless in in being able to provide any
type of assistance we are struggling uh
and our staff are struggling just as the
2.3 million Palestinians trapped inside
Gaza are
struggling what do people in Gaza need
most right now
Shaina what they need most is a
ceasefire they need an end to this
violence and so that then we can bring
in a scale up the amount of assistance
going in help people with the um
recovery and help them to clear the
rubble and help them to rebuild their l
of course people are desperate for
everything food water medicines medical
supplies fuel cooking gas all of the
things that they've been needing for the
last eight weeks but the best way to
provide for the people of Gaza is to
have a ceasefire so that humanitarian
organizations can go in and safely
provide the assistance that people so
desperately need Shaina thank you very
much as always that was Shaina loow from
the Norwegian Refugee
Council
and we can now talk to Lieutenant
Colonel Peter Lan he joins us from Tel
Aviv he's a spokesperson for the Israeli
military thanks for being with us again
now your forces Colonel down are
expanding their operations in southern
Gaza uh should we expect the offensive
in the South to unfold much as the way
the offensive in the north did with
similar
impact T good morning indeed from our
perspective We are continuing uh our
offensive against Hamas against Hamas
terrorists wherever they are hiding and
engaging them from the sky from the
ground and from sea uh Hamas has um T
decided in their strategic decision not
to release the hostages these 17 women
and children that are still being held
by them that we will resume the
offensive this is precisely the the
stipulation of the agreement of the for
U the framework
um that stipulated the cessation of
hostilities will maintain as long as
they hand over hostages we still have
137 hostages and that is why um because
they decided to break down and step away
from that agreement we have been
instructed by the government to resume
our offensive in order to bring back the
hostages and make sure that Hamas never
power of government again so I would say
without going into specifics of where we
are how we're operating what specific
locations we are going to operate in I
would say definitely we are taking the
fight to
Hamas so again I'm just wondering what
we can expect to happen there in the
South because this is a new phase in the
war we had a cessation of hostilities
for a few days as those hostages uh were
released um what can we expect in the
South and and what's happening still in
the north are you still facing
resistance
there um the combat is continuous we've
not seen any real uh uh difference in
the in the north as over the last few
days of the last this is now date three
since we've resumed our offensive we
have uh struck and killed B two
Battalion commanders from one from sajia
one from Shati over the last two days we
are undermining their operational
capabilities and killing their fighters
on the ground every single day um this
is what we continue to do regarding
specific Precision strikes that we're
conducting in location in the South they
are intelligence-based uh and um I would
say because it's not boots on the ground
in the south at this stage they are they
are uh very uh focused on distinguishing
between the civilians and um the
terrorists the non-combatants to the
terrorists and that is the the the
current situation we are uh this still
this morning um as the the operation
develops indeed we have uh the freedom
and the obligation to to remove Hamas
from governing the Gaza Strip we have
the responsibility to make sure that
they don't have terrorist capabilities
ever to attack Israel again I want to
ask you about civilian casualties in
Gaza it's a sensitive subject um it's
estimated that around 15,000 civilians
have been killed there uh since Israel
began its operations in response to
those horrific attacks by Hamas on
Israel on October 7th are you expecting
Colonel Lana a similar level of Civilian
casualties in this next phase of the
war Terry every civilian life lost in
this war is a human tragedy a colle and
a collective tragedy it's an individual
tragedy and it's a tragedy that could
have been averted it could have been
averted by Hamas not launching their war
against Israel uh but once they did they
determined also where the Battleground
is and that poses extreme challenges for
any professional military we are going
to continue to operate within the laws
of armed conflict in order to mitigate
limit the civilian strife and limit
civilian casualties it is a war
nevertheless and all of the efforts that
we go in order to limit those casualties
uh limit those fatalities are a huge
challenge uh especially in light of the
fact that Hamas have intentionally
placed their command and control
positions in hospitals intentionally
position their rocket launchers from in
schools intentionally position their
tunnel underneath houses and mosques and
and and all of the civilian
infrastructure so indeed we will go out
continue to go out of our way in order
to evacuate people from Harm's Way uh
under the understanding that Hamas is
interested in maintaining those images
maintaining the civilian casualties this
is the tragedy of this war talk to us a
little more about those evacuations
because we've been hearing uh for quite
a while now that there's really no safe
place to go in Gaza I just spoke to an
aid worker who uh who told me that
people are being killed in places that
they were told were going to be safe
where do you expect gazin to go now to
escape the fighting and survive
it so we have an elaborate system of
designating specific neighborhoods
specific locations where we are
intending and operating and indeed we
are announcing to to those locations
specific locations um where people
should move from uh and where they
should where they will be safer and
indeed that is the reality that is the
vast um I would say the the extensive
reality on the ground that hundreds and
perhaps thousands of people are
evacuating from specific places and
reaching safety uh in the area indeed it
doesn't undermine the fact that Hamas
will continue to abuse civilian
locations elsewhere continue to launch
rockets continue to uh conduct attacks
continue to hide and plan their
activities from uh from within the
civilian Arena putting more people at
risk this is the challenge that we face
um you can't expect us not to defend our
people because they are hiding behind
Palestinians Israeli military spokesman
Lieutenant Colonel Peter Lena thank you
very
much good
day journalist hm baloa used to report
from Gaza he now joins us from Jordan
ham what are you hearing about the
situation in Gaza right
now um according to the people on the
ground and from the reports um from
different sources that um some people
described last night that was like as
the war started um over again there was
a huge bombardments and air strikes in
across the G STP from the north area and
from the south um many people said that
they heared um uh some tanks are
entering some areas like shwan in in
Gaza City then new thing that the tanks
are trying to to cross um from the sorry
from the south from the south from the
eastern part of the South to the West
trying to Gaza STP and unit from other
parties now people in Gaza have been
told to evacuate areas that are being
targeted by the Israeli military where
are they supposed to go ham
this is the always um the question is
asked and by everybody by the people
they have no place I know people who got
displaced like um from five or six times
some people are more some from the north
this place to Gaza City then to the
south then to other place in the South
now they are asked to move somewhere
else um I'm talking to people and they
are asking and if you look at the social
media people are sharing and asking um
about places to go people um in in Rafa
for example yesterday I saw plenty of of
post asking people where to go they they
are literally in the street they have no
place to go as the people ask from kanun
to leave the area as a ground invasion
is expected uh to invade the
area now Israel says it will continue
its offensive in Gaza until the threat
from Hamas has been eliminated what what
are Gins expecting to happen there in
the coming days and weeks
ham the expectation is the worse um uh
it's it's getting worse from day uh to
another from u a moment to another uh
the death go is increasing uh
destruction is um is widening um people
losing hope um I can see that in their
words when I talk to them when I read
their their messages um um it's very
hard for them they have no um no hope um
of of anything would happen or change of
course they they are willing that to see
the war is over but um the the reality
on the ground that they have no um no
signs of anything would impr would
improve especially with the increase in
the South now is like the tanks is
improving and and getting new areas um
especially amid of the lack of food lack
of water and and electricity
communication and people are not able to
shelter um and they are moving from a
place to another ham thank you very much
that was journalist hm belala in Iman
Jordan thank
you we can now cross to our
correspondent Rebecca r ERS who's
standing by in Jerusalem Rebecca Israel
is coming under increasing pressure to
avoid civilian casualties is it showing
any sign of changing its tactics in Gaza
due to the international
pressure Terry not at all in fact quite
uh to the contrary we've heard from both
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu and
the heads of the military that they will
push on in uh the next phase as they
call it of their ground operation that
they will press on in the same fashion
yesterday we heard the head of Israeli
military saying that this would be no
less powerful the operation in the South
and no less successful uh we heard that
on Thursday Anthony blinkin the US
Secretary of State did speak to heads of
the Israeli government and the Israeli
military leaders here saying urging them
that they what we saw in the north
couldn't be repeated in the South we
heard Kamala Harris uh the the vice
president of the US saying uh in Doha
that the civilian casualties were just
too high so we are seeing that pressure
but we're really seeing the exact
opposite coming from Israel they are
vowing to push on and to continue they
maintain that they they give sufficient
warnings to civilians to be able to get
out of the areas that they're bombarding
we had confirmation yesterday of course
as you've been reporting that they have
now moved into the South and in all
areas and have you know from all
accounts that we're getting have have
carved up much of the area into what's
been being called a maab uh get board
game if you will numbered areas in the
strip that citizens can then look up and
see whether their area that they're in
is going to be attacked so uh I think
it's unlikely that we'll see any let up
from the Israelis and and we're very
very likely in fact to see a similar
level of Destruction and civilian
casualties now Hamas is still holding
hostages uh in Gaza is there any
indication Rebecca that Israel and Hamas
might return to the negotiating table to
talk about another hostage release uh
another pause in the
fighting it's always really difficult to
say Terry the talks are are always kept
very much Under Wraps um but you know
there is intention from the negotiators
we have seen the US Qatar and Egypt
pushing for the resumption of these
talks they were ongoing even after the
limited ceasefire broke down on Friday
they they were continuing but on
Saturday they they did come to a
complete halt when Israel pulled out its
negotiators from Doha where they had
been there trying to discuss the
resumption they blamed Hamas for for not
uh sticking to their promise of of
providing a list of further women and
children to be uh released in the
hostage exchange um but you know they it
is of course likely that they could uh
rejoin talks down the track we know that
they're under immense pressure it's
Israel from the families from the
relatives of the hostages and from other
uh you know from the whole nation really
to to make sure that these hostages are
returned to Israel um but that at this
stage those talks still uh
stalled Rebecca thank you very much our
correspondent Rebecca ritters there in
Jerusalem as Israel expands its ground
offensive to all of Gaza I asked
military analyst Marina Miron if the
Israeli military was picking up where it
left off after the weekl long pause in
in or if this signals a change in
strategy well I think that they have
they had to readjust the strategy nobody
knew how long the ceasefire will last um
if it will last we have seen that it has
worked out for seven days but now a lot
of things could have happened during
this time and Hamas might have moved its
weapons might have moved um the hostages
the remaining hostages so obviously
Israeli intelligence would have had to
be very active during this time in order
to be able to assess the situation on
the ground and to provide this
information to the Troops in order to be
able to conduct its operation further so
it seemed that um Israel has started in
the north now they want to start in the
South so they will be more concentrating
on the south and and then bringing those
two closer together presumably we don't
know it will depend on how the military
operation evolves right and we're
looking at something like 10,000
Palestinians dead were using estimates
from the uh the Hamas controlled um
health authority in Gaza but the UN the
US has led a growing chorus of disqui at
those civilian deaths um why do you
think Israel has not changed its
strategy despite those
warnings it is very difficult um to
adjust the strategy especially if you
are fighting an IR regular force and
then IR regular force is Hamas so
according to the international law both
sides would have to take all feasible
precautions in order to get the
civilians out um this is unfortunately
not the case and this is where normal
people who have nothing to do with this
conflict suffer as a potential
collateral damage but we don't know all
the facts we do not know why Israel is
CH choosing the locations and um that is
choosing to strike and we see a lot of
those locations are civilian locations
so these ass assessments will have to be
made um post morm so to say and I think
um the reason why Israel doesn't want to
change its strategy is because it would
be a military disadvantage for Israel so
Israel could be much slower much more
discriminate perhaps but that would
allow more time for Hamas to move around
and then Israel wouldn't be able to use
its entire might to strike Hamas targets
so there is this tradeoff and I think
right now Israel is not ready to make
that step despite the fact that um for
Hamas this is very
beneficial because groups like that want
a disproportionate response in order to
be able to film it and then to put it
out and um conduct psychological
operations
in terms of showing how barbaric the
other side is clear as ever thank you so
much for joining us again on this Sunday
Marina military analyst Marina
Miron